hi GCSE biology syllabus statement 274
describing the role of antidiuretic
hormone ADH in regulating the water
content of blood so that's an tie-dye
erratic hormone
antidiuretic hormone is produced in a
region of the brain here known as the
hypothalamus like all hormones it flows
through the bloodstream and its target
is the kidney the effect of antidiuretic
hormone is to control and alter the
composition or the quantity of water
which is in blood so antidiuretic
hormone a d h has the ability to make
the blood more or less concentrated and
we'll remember from previous work how
the importance is to establish that the
tissue fluid is isotonic our tissue
fluid here is isotonic with the
cytoplasm of the cell this is the role
of ADH
ADH actually targets the collecting duct
so this is the target for a D H and the
effect of ADH is that it allows more
water to come out of the collecting duct
so already we've learned that the
collecting duct is responsible for water
so in the collecting duct this is where
water is selectively reabsorbed into the
blood but it's possible to increase the
amount of water going into the blood by
applying the hormone antidiuretic
hormone ADH ADH actually makes the
collecting duct walls more porous so
that more water can actually escape from
the collecting duct and this water goes
back into the blood
the consequence of ADH secretion is that
the urine coming from here would be more
concentrated and it would have a lower
volume so with ADHD chrétien more water
goes back into the blood the urine
becomes more concentrated and the volume
decreases students might like to
consider what is the ADH response how
does our brain respond to a hot day and
how does our brain respond with ADH on a
cold day
how does it our brain respond with ADH
when we become dehydrated consider these
three scenarios